Add devrel section to the docs (#1124)
spectrocloud/librarium: content/docs/19-kubernetes-knowlege-hub/00-how-to/02-how-to-retrieve-images-from-private-registry.md

Reviewer: These changes are mainly related to the title headings.

---
title: "Retrieve Images from a Private Registry"
metaTitle: "Retrieve Images from a Private Registry"

> metaDescription: "Create a Kubernetes Secret"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
metaDescription: "Create a Kubernetes Secret to retrieve images from a private registry."
```

Kubernetes is an open-source container orchestration platform that enables efficient management, deployment, and scaling of containerized applications.

By default, Docker and Kubernetes allow a limited number of unauthenticated pulls from a Docker registry, such as Docker Hub. Once you have exceeded this limit, you will not be able to pull any more images until the limit resets. 

The limit is based on the IP address of the machine making the pulls, so it applies to all containers running on that machine.

To avoid this issue, it's recommended that you authenticate with the Docker registry before pulling images, especially if you are pulling from a private registry. This will ensure that you have access to the images you need and can pull them without any restrictions or limitations. 

To log into a Docker registry from Kubernetes, you must create a secret containing your registry credentials. You can use this secret in a Kubernetes deployment configuration to pull images from the registry.

In this tutorial, you will log into a private docker registry to pull existing images of an application you will deploy in Kubernetes.

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Prerequisites
```

> - The kubectl [command-line tool](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/). Kubectl allows you to connect to, configure and work with your clusters through the command line.

Author: Here, Kubectl is the first word in the sentence. I'm not sure why it the checker wants me to use small letter instead.

- Access to a private registry.  [DockerHub](https://hub.docker.com/) offers a single private registry on the free tier. If you do not have a personal registry account, you can use DockerHub.
- Access to a running Kubernetes cluster. Setting up a Kubernetes cluster can be difficult. You can read about how to [create one from scratch](https://www.notion.so/How-To-Create-a-Kubernetes-Cluster-bf707518b6bf4a918d8b11a570eabed6) or on [Spectro Cloud’s console.](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/getting-started/#deployingyourfirstcluster)

Below is an example of how you can create a secret and use it in a Kubernetes deployment:

> ## **Create a JSON File Containing your Credentials.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a Credentials JSON File
```
Shorter and concise

First, create a file called **registry-creds.json** that contains your registry credentials in the following format:

```json
{
	"auths": {
		"example.registry.com": {
			"username": "username",
			"password": "password"
		}
	}
}
```

Keeping passwords in plain text is unsafe. Kubernetes automatically encodes passwords used to create a secret in base64.  Encoding passwords does not mean your passwords cannot be decoded. 

> ## **Create a Kubernetes Secret from the JSON File Containing the Secrets.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a Kubernetes Secret 
```

Use the kubectl command-line tool to generate a secret from the **registry-creds.json** file:

```bash
kubectl create secret generic myregistrykey --from-file=registry-creds.json
```

You can use the command below to view the secret created in detail.

```bash

> kubectl get secret/myregistrykey -o json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl get secret/myregistrykey --output json
```

```

> The output of the command displays that the content of the **registry-creds.json** file is base 64 encoded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The command output displays the content of the **registry-creds.json** file as base 64 encoded.
```

```json
{
    "apiVersion": "v1",
    "data": {
        "registry-creds.json": "ewogICJhdXRocyI6IHsKICAgICJleGFtcGxlLnJlZ2lzdHJ5LmNvbSI6IHsKICAgICAgInVzZXJuYW1lIjogInRlc3RfdXNlcm5hbWUiLAogICAgICAicGFzc3dvcmQiOiAidGVzdF9wYXNzd29yZCIKICAgIH0KICB9Cn0K"
    },
    "kind": "Secret",
    "metadata": {
        "creationTimestamp": "2023-03-22T08:44:26Z",
        "name": "myregistrykey",
        "namespace": "default",
        "resourceVersion": "1552285",
        "uid": "ccfb047b-67c8-446b-a69a-6eb762c3100f"
    },
    "type": "Opaque"
}
```

> You will decode the secret you created to verify that secrets are not secure.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what's happening here. Is this a "test" of sorts to decode the secret? And the test is to confirm that secrets are not secure? "To verify that secrets are not secure" is unclear. Maybe it's something like "To show you that...?" 

I'm not sure of the point being made here.

Suggestion: "Invoke the following command to ..."

```bash

> kubectl get secret myregistrykey -o jsonpath='{.data.registry-creds\.json}' | base64 --decode

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl get secret myregistrykey --output jsonpath='{.data.registry-creds\.json}' | base64 --decode
```

> You will decode the secret you created to verify that secrets are not secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Invoke the following command to decode the secret you created to verify that secrets are not secure.
```

```

> The output of issuing the command above is the content of the JSON file you used to create the secret.

Reviewer 2: This sentence a bit awkward, but I'm not sure how to correct it because I'm not sure what's happening with decoding. 

As a follow-up to my comment about line 90, I'm not sure how line 96 ties in. Did we decode a secret and then re-encode it?

Author: > This sentence a bit awkward, but I'm not sure how to correct it because I'm not sure what's happening with decoding.
> 
> As a follow-up to my comment about line 90, I'm not sure how line 96 ties in. Did we decode a secret and then re-encode it?

Thanks for taking the time to review this piece. In this section, we created a secret. When a secret is created with Kubernetes it is automatically base64 encoded. 

We, however, added that the fact that a secret is base64 encoded does not make it safe. So we went ahead to decode the secret to demonstrate that encoded secrets can be decoded.

```json
{
	"auths": {
		"example.registry.com": {
			"username": "username",
			"password": "password"
		}
	}
}
```

> ## **Add Secret to Deployment config.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##  Add Secret to Deployment Config
```

> In your Kubernetes deployment configuration, specify the name of the secret you just created in the imagePullSecrets field:

Reviewer 2: Do we use the following format for navigation in yaml files?

spec:template:spec:containers:imagePullSecrets

> In your Kubernetes deployment configuration, specify the name of the secret you just created in the imagePullSecrets field:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your Kubernetes deployment configuration, specify the name of the secret you just created for the imagePullSecrets parameter:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: my-deployment
spec:
  replicas: 3
  selector:
    matchLabels: 
      app: my-app
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: my-app
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: my-container
          image: registry.example.com/my-image
          imagePullSecrets:
            - name: myregistrykey
```

> ## Apply the Deployment configuration To your Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Apply the Deployment Configuration
```

```bash

> kubectl apply -f deployment.yaml

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl apply --file deployment.yaml
```

```

With this configuration in place, Kubernetes will use the registry credentials in the `myregistrykey` secret to log into the registry and pull the specified image when deploying the application.

> ## Other Ways To Authenticate To a Docker Registry from Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Other Docker Registry Authentication Methods
```

An alternative way to log into a Docker registry from Kubernetes is by using the command line. 

Authenticate to the private registry. Here’s an example of how to do this:

```bash
$ kubectl create secret docker-registry <secret-name> \
    --docker-server=<registry-url> \
    --docker-username=<username> \
    --docker-password=<password> \
    --docker-email=<email>
```

In the snippet above, **`<secret-name>`** refers to a unique name for the secret, **`<registry-url>`** is the URL of the private registry. Replace the **`<username>`** with the username for authentication and **`<password>`** with the password for authentication. Also, replace **`<email>`**
 with the email associated with the authentication credentials.

Add the secret created in the previous step to the default service account with the following code.

```bash
$ kubectl patch serviceaccount default \

>     -p '{"imagePullSecrets": [{"name": "<secret-name>"}]}'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    --port '{"imagePullSecrets": [{"name": "<secret-name>"}]}'
```

```

Replace **`<secret-name>`** with the secret created in the previous step.

> Once you are authenticated and have added the secret to your default service account, you can use the kubectl command to pull images from the registry and deploy them to your Kubernetes cluster like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you are authenticated and have added the secret to your default service account, you can use the kubectl command to pull images from the registry and deploy them to your Kubernetes cluster as follows.
```

```bash

> $ kubectl run <deployment-name> \
>     --image=<registry-url>/<image-name>:<tag> \
>     --port=<container-port>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kubectl run <deployment-name> \
    --image=<registry-url>/<image-name>:<tag> \
    --port=<container-port>
```

```

The line above will create a new deployment using the image specified from the private registry.

# Next Steps

> In conclusion, accessing images from a private registry in Kubernetes can be challenging due to the need to authenticate with the registry. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Accessing images from a private registry in Kubernetes can be challenging due to the need to authenticate with the registry. 
```
We can remove "In conclusion" as it's not needed.

To solve this challenge, you have learned how to create a Kubernetes secret with your Docker registry credentials and use it in a Kubernetes deployment configuration. This allows you to pull images from your private registry without restrictions or limitations. 

> To learn more about Kubernetes and how to use it to deploy your application, you can visit [our documentation.](https://docs.spectrocloud.com/) You can also read about [how to deploy a stateless frontend application](https://www.notion.so/How-To-Deploy-A-Stateless-Frontend-App-with-Kubernetes-b885ae2307e94ef191a1b713fe29c81f) on Kubernetes or join our [slack channel](https://join.slack.com/t/spectrocloudcommunity/shared_invite/zt-1mw0cgosi-hZJDF_1QU77vF~qNJoPNUQ) to have exciting conversations on Kubernetes with our community members.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about Kubernetes and how to use it to deploy your application, check out [Palette's Dev Engine](/devx/apps/deploy-app) and how it can reduce the challenges often encountered with deploying apps to Kubernetes. You can also read about [how to deploy a stateless frontend application](/kubernetes-knowlege-hub/how-to/deploy-stateless-frontend-app) on Kubernetes or join our [slack channel](https://join.slack.com/t/spectrocloudcommunity/shared_invite/zt-1mw0cgosi-hZJDF_1QU77vF~qNJoPNUQ). Learn from other Kubernetes users and get to know fellow community members.
```

FIxed the URLs that were pointing back to Notion. Minor language cleanup at the end. And lastly, instead of pointing generically to our docs. We can point the target audience to Palette PDE.
